[TASK] Gather a huge list of terms for the Terminology reference (#8)
TYPO3-Documentation/typo3-writing-guide: Documentation/writing-principles-and-guidelines/spelling-and-typo3-terminology.rst

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

.. _typo3-terminology:

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
==============================

This section establishes common keywords and the terminology that TYPO3 uses.
For a guide on how to spell certain trademark and product names, see
:ref:`Spelling, terms and glossary <h2document:spelling-ref-this-guide>`.

.. _1-spelling-and-typo3-terminology:

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   A

    ..  _admin-panel:
    -   *Admin Panel*

        The Admin Panel is an administrative tool that can be enabled in the

>         frontend to show debugging information, performed SQL queries and more

Author: No, actually this is about "performed" ones. You cannot perform queries from this place, you can only see the queries that were performed.

        the backend, which are included in the list of "Allow fields" in their
        permission setup.

    ..  _assets:
    -   *Assets*

        Assets are media resources like images, videos and documents that are
        uploaded and managed in the TYPO3 system. Also, extensions can include
        assets which can be referred to in the frontend, like specific icons or
        even JavaScript libraries.

*   B

    ..  _backend---frontend:
    -   *Backend / Frontend*

        Backend and Frontend are the two main areas of TYPO3 CMS. The backend is
        the administrative interface for editors and administrators, while the
        frontend is the publicly accessible part of the website.

    ..  _backend-bookmarks:
    -   *Backend Bookmarks*

        Backend bookmarks are shortcuts that users can set for frequently used
        backend pages for quicker access.

    ..  _backend-layout:
    -   *Backend Layout*

        The backend layout defines the structure and design of the backend user
        interface in regard to maintaining content elements and the arrangement
        of their input fields. A backend layout can be set on a page-level, and

>         this attribute can actually be also evaluated in the frontend, to affect

Reviewer: @garvinhicking I think this needs to be rephrased

        done via the permission setup.

    ..  _extbase:
    -   *Extbase*

        Extbase is a framework for developing extensions in the TYPO3 system
        based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) principle. It allows to easily
        define models with their data fields (stored as records), that can be managed by editors in
        the backend. The models can then also be revealed in the frontend with
        any custom logic, adhering to standards, conventions and API
        definitions. The Extbase controllers which are part of an Extbase plugin
        allow to integrate this custom logic in PHP.

    ..  _extension:
    -   *Extension*

        An extension is an add-on to the TYPO3 system that adds additional
        functionalities and features. An extension can consist of multiple
        parts, for example backend modules, frontend plugins, scheduler tasks,
        console commands, API definitions, frontend styling and much more.

    ..  _extension-builder:
    -   *Extension Builder*

        The Extension Builder is a backend module in TYPO3 that facilitates the
        creation of (preferably) extbase extensions. The Extension Builder is a

>         community extension and maintained on its own.

Reviewer: @garvinhicking please address this in a follow up

        are needed to upgrade a custom extension.

*   F

    ..  _fal:
    -   *FAL*

        The File Abstraction Layer (FAL) is a system in TYPO3 that centralizes
        the management and access to files and media resources. This is the
        technical interface (API) to the integrated media asset database.

    ..  _fe-groups---be-groups:
    -   *fe_groups / be_groups*

        Frontend groups :sql:`fe_groups` and backend groups :sql:`be_groups`
        are user groups in TYPO3 that define different permissions and roles. Frontend groups restrict frontend content and possible actions to specific users in those groups. Backend groups allow to define permissions on what content and actions can be performed in the backend.

    ..  _felogin:
    -   *felogin*

        :t3ext:`felogin` is a TYPO3 system extension for managing and
        authenticating frontend users.

    ..  _fe-users---be-users:
    -   *fe_users / be_users*

        Frontend users :sql:`fe_users` and backend users :sql:`be_users` are the
        two main types of users in the TYPO3 system.

    ..  _file-reference:
    -   *file reference*

>         A file reference is a reference to a file stored and used within the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A file reference is a reference to a file in the
```

>         TYPO3 system. A file reference (in comparison to a file copy) is only a pointer to the original file, so when the original file changes, all references will too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        TYPO3 system. A file reference (as opposed to a file copy) is a pointer to the original file, so that when the original file changes, all references will too.
```

    ..  _file-resource:
    -   *file resource*

        A file resource is a physical file that is stored and managed within the
        TYPO3 system. A file reference always points to a file resource.

    ..  _file-storage:
    -   *file storage*

        File storage in TYPO3 manages the organization and storage of files and

>         media resources. Other systems refer to this with a term like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        media resources. Other systems may refer to this
```

>         "asset storage".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        as "asset storage".
```

    ..  _fileadmin:
    -   *fileadmin*

        The :file:`fileadmin` area is a special folder in the TYPO3 backend

>         where files and media resources are managed. This is the default name of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for files and media resources. This has been the default name of
```

>         file storages since TYPO3 versions, but can be customized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        the file storage since TYPO3 versions, but can be customized.
```

    ..  _filelist:
    -   *Filelist*

        The :t3ext:`filelist` is a module in the TYPO3 backend used for

>         displaying and managing files and media resources. It displays contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        displaying and managing files and media resources. It displays the content
```

>         of all configured file storages. When referencing files from content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        of all configured file storage. When referencing files from content
```

>         elements, a popup window will also display the filelist in the backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        elements, a popup window will display the filelist in the backend.
```

    ..  _flash-message:
    -   *Flash Message*

>         Flash Messages are temporary notifications in the TYPO3 backend that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Flash Messages are notifications in the TYPO3 backend that
```

>         inform users about important events or changes. Also the Extbase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        inform users about important events or changes. The Extbase
```

>         framework allows to use an API to display these kinds of messages in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        framework has an API to display flash messages in the
```

        frontend.

    ..  _flexform:
    -   *FlexForm*

>         FlexForms are a selection of functionalities that allow to extend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        FlexForms are a way of adding additional content element settings
```

>         content element settings in the Backend, which can be accessed in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        in the Backend and which can be accessed in the
```

>         frontend. A flexForm data source (XML format) defines available sheets,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        frontend. A flexForm data source (in XML format) defines sheets,
```

        sections and fields, which are displayed alongside a record in the
        backend record editing interface (based on TCA naming).

>         The values entered in a FlexForm data source are also saved as XML data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The values entered in a FlexForm data source are saved as XML data
```

>         (as some kind of "blob", so it needs serialization and deserialization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        (as a "blob", so will need serialization and deserialization
```

>         when being accessed), which allows for any kind of flexible additional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        when being accessed), which allows for customizable additional
```

>         data storage in parallel to the relational database tables (like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        data storage as well as the relational database tables (like
```

        :sql:`tt_content`).

    ..  _fluid:
    -   *Fluid*

        Fluid is a template engine in TYPO3 used for creating dynamic and

>         customizable frontend layouts. The format looks like HTML and offers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        customizable frontend layouts. It looks like HTML and has
```

>         specific and extensible tags to be embedded. It also standard variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        embedded tags that can be customized. It also has standard variable
```

        replacement as well as a large range of algorithmic and logical
        operations.

    ..  _forge---forger---gerrit:
    -   *Forge / Forger / Gerrit*

>         `Forge <https://forge.typo3.org/>`__ is the central issue platform for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        `Forge <https://forge.typo3.org/>`__ is the central platform for issues and where
```

>         letting the Core Team manage the TYPO3 project and its features and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        the Core Team manage the TYPO3 project and its features and
```

        bugs. `Forger <https://forger.typo3.com/>`__ and `Gerrit
        <https://review.typo3.org/>`__
        are tools for code review and management.

    ..  _form-framework---form-extension:
    -   *Form Framework / Form Extension*

        The :t3ext:`form` framework in TYPO3 is used to create and manage

>         complex forms with various fields and validations. A backend module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        complex forms with many fields and validations. Backend modules
```

>         allows to configure these forms with a powerful GUI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        allow these forms to be configured through a powerful GUI.
```

    ..  _form-variants:
    -   *Form Variants*

        Form Variants are different versions or variations of a form built in
        the form framework, that can be defined and used within the TYPO3
        system.

    ..  _formengine:
    -   *FormEngine*

        The FormEngine is a vital component in TYPO3 responsible for displaying all record
        and content editing parts in the backend.

    ..  _fsc---csc:
    -   *fsc / csc*

        fsc (Fluid Styled Content) and csc (CSS Styled Content) are system
        extensions that can be used to render content elements in the frontend.

*   G

    ..  _generalutility:
    -   *GeneralUtility*

        GeneralUtility is a central PHP class in TYPO3 that provides a variety

>         of general utility functions and methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        of general functions and methods.
```

    ..  _gifbuilder:
    -   *GifBuilder*

>         GifBuilder is an API set in TYPO3 for creating and editing images. Even

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        GifBuilder is an API set in TYPO3 for creating and editing images.
```

>         though it is called "Gif"-Builder, it can deal with all image formats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        It is called "Gif"-Builder but it can deal with all image formats
```

>         and is used to embed overlays and other manipulation (color, geometry)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        and is used to embed overlays and other manipulations (color, geometry)
```

        into media files.

*   I

    ..  _indexed-search:
    -   *Indexed Search*

        Indexed Search is a system extension in TYPO3 for implementing search

>         functionality on the website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        on a website.
```

    ..  _infobox:
    -   *Infobox*

        An infobox is a highlighted area on a page that contains important

>         information or notices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        information.
```

    ..  _install-tool:
    -   *Install Tool*

        The Install Tool is a tool in the TYPO3 backend used for installing and
        configuring/upgrading the system.

    ..  _integrator---developer:
    -   *Integrator / Developer*

        Integrator and Developer are roles within the TYPO3 ecosystem.
        Integrators are responsible for setting up and configuring the system,

>         while developers create new extensions and features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        and developers create new extensions and features.
```

    ..  _introduction-package:
    -   *Introduction Package*

>         The Introduction Package is an example package in TYPO3 that contains a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The Introduction Package is a sample package in TYPO3 that contains a
```

>         pre-configured website with sample content and configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        pre-configured website with content and configuration.
```

    ..  _irre:
    -   *IRRE*

>         IRRE (Inline Relational Record Editing) is a feature in TYPO3 that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        IRRE (Inline Relational Record Editing) is a feature in TYPO3
```

>         allows for the editing of related records directly within the backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        where related (child) records can be edited directly in the backend (via a form).
```

>         It is displayed as a nested accordion structure (also supporting tabs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        It is displayed in a nested accordion structure (also supports tabs).
```

>         to manage child-records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    ..  _itemprocessor:
    -   *ItemProcessor*

>         An ItemProcessor is a component in TYPO3 that processes and manipulates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        An ItemProcessor is a component that processes and manipulates
```

>         individual data elements to be used within the FormEngine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        individual data elements used within the FormEngine.
```

*   L

    ..  _legacy-installation:
    -   *Legacy Installation*

        TYPO3 can be operated in one of two modes: "Composer Installation"
        (using the Composer ecosystem and tooling to setup TYPO3, also referred

>         to as "Composer mode") or "Legacy Installation", in which the TYPO3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        to as "Composer mode") or "Legacy Installation", in which TYPO3
```

>         distribution files are simply maintained as files and folders put onto a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        distribution files are maintained as a simple set of files and folders on a
```

        server.

    ..  _link-browser:
    -   *Link Browser*

        The Link Browser is a tool in the TYPO3 backend for creating and
        managing links and references. It can be accessed when inserting links

>         into content elements and is opened as a popup, allowing to pick pages,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        into content elements and opens as a popup, allowing pages,
```

>         records, media files, or enter URLS for all fields configured as "link

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        records, media files, or URLS to be selected for all fields configured as a "link
```

>         type", or within plain content edited through the RTE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        type", or in plain content edited through the RTE.
```

    ..  _linkhandler:
    -   *LinkHandler*

        The LinkHandler is a component in TYPO3 that provides advanced link and

>         reference functionalities. Each kind of Link (like: files, pages,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        reference functionality. Each type of Link (for example: files, pages,
```

        records, mails, telephone, ...) is implemented via the LinkHandler API.

    ..  _linkvalidator:
    -   *Linkvalidator*

>         Linkvalidator is a tool in TYPO3 that checks links and references on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Linkvalidator is a tool in TYPO3 that checks links and references on a
```

        website for validity and identifies broken or invalid links. It operates

>         on the level of content elements and their specific data fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        on content elements and their data fields.
```

    ..  _list-view:
    -   *List View*

        The :guilabel:`Web -> List` view is a view in the TYPO3 backend used for
        displaying and managing records in a list format.

*   M

    ..  _maintenance-mode:
    -   *Maintenance Mode*

>         Maintenance Mode in TYPO3 is used to take the website offline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Maintenance Mode in TYPO3 is used to temporarily take a website offline
```

>         temporarily for updates or maintenance. Only maintainers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for updates or maintenance. Only maintainers
```

>         (administrators) are then able to access the backend and frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        (administrators) can then access the backend and frontend.
```

    ..  _maintenance-tool:
    -   *Maintenance Tool*

        The Maintenance Tool is a tool in the TYPO3 backend used for performing
        maintenance tasks and system optimizations. It is part of the "Admin
        Tools" backend module.

    ..  _makeinstance:
    -   *makeInstance*

>         `GeneralUtility::makeInstance()` is a method in the TYPO3 PHP API, used for creating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        `GeneralUtility::makeInstance()` is a method in the TYPO3 PHP API used for creating
```

>         instances of classes and objects. It can utilize "Dependency Injection"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        instances of classes and objects. It can use "Dependency Injection"
```

        for service classes.

    ..  _modal:
    -   *Modal*

        A modal is a dialog or pop-up window in TYPO3 that prompts users to
        enter or confirm information.

    ..  _module:
    -   *Module*

>         A module is a component that expands the TYPO3 backend by providing various

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A module is a component that extends the TYPO3 backend by providing various
```

>         functionalities and tools. Modules usually come in the form of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        functionality and tools. Modules are usually
```

>         "Backend Modules", and are part of the left-hand side navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "Backend Modules", and appear in the left-hand side navigation.
```

    ..  _multisite:
    -   *Multisite*

        Multisite refers to the capability of TYPO3 to manage multiple distinct

>         websites from a single installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        websites in a single installation.
```

*   O

    ..  _overrides:
    -   *Overrides*

        Overrides, specifically "TCA Overrides", allow TYPO3 extensions to

>         change central configuration of records and content elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        change core configuration of records and content elements.
```

*   P

    ..  _package:
    -   *Package*

        A Package is a bundle of files and resources used for installing and

>         configuring extensions or functionalities in TYPO3. Commonly, TYPO3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        configuring extensions or functionalities in TYPO3. Usually, TYPO3
```

>         extensions are provided as "Composer Packages", where this term is the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        extensions are available as "Composer Packages", hence the term

>         short form of.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "package".
```

    ..  _page-frame---tree-frame---module-frame---navigation-frame:
    -   *Page Frame / Tree Frame / Module Frame / Navigation Frame*

>         Page frame, Tree frame, and Module frame are various sections in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Page frame, Tree frame, and Module frame are sections in the
```

>         TYPO3 backend used for displaying and navigating content and modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        TYPO3 backend where content and modules are displayed and can be navigated.
```

    ..  _page-tree:
    -   *Page Tree*

        The Page Tree is a hierarchical representation of the page structure in

>         the TYPO3 backend used for navigating and managing the website. It is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        the TYPO3 backend. It is
```

>         shown in the middle section of the TYPO3 Backend in the places where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        displayed in the middle section of the TYPO3 Backend where
```

        content is edited.

    ..  _page-view:
    -   *Page View*

>         The Page View is a view in the TYPO3 backend used for editing and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The Page View is a view in the TYPO3 backend where page content
```

>         managing individual page content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        is edited and managed.
```

    ..  _pagebuilder:
    -   *Page builder* / *Sitepackage Builder*

        A Sitepackage Builder, or Pagebuilders, are tools in TYPO3 for creating and designing page layouts
        and content. They are often used to create "Sitepackage

>         extensions", which define the central TYPO3 frontend look and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        extensions", which define the TYPO3 frontend appearance and the
```

        definitions of content elements. Since these sitepackages can often be

>         repetitive and contain boilerplate code, buliders can help to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        repetitive and contain boilerplate code, builders can help to
```

        auto-generate these sitepackages.

    ..  _pagerenderer:
    -   *PageRenderer*

        The PageRenderer is a PHP API component in TYPO3 responsible for
        rendering and displaying page content in the frontend.

    ..  _palette--tca:
    -   *Palette (TCA)*

        A Palette in the TCA (Table Configuration Array) is a grouping of fields

>         that can be displayed and edited together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        that are displayed and edited together.
```

    ..  _partial:
    -   *Partial*

        A Partial is a re-usable component of Fluid templates, that can be
        parametrized.

    ..  _permissions---acl:
    -   *Permissions / ACL*

        Permissions and Access Control Lists (ACL) are mechanisms in TYPO3 for
        managing access rights and restrictions for users and groups.

    ..  _pibase:
    -   *piBase*

>         piBase was a base class for developing frontend plugins in TYPO3. The name "piBase" is based on the old class `class.tslib_pibase.php` ("pi" for "PlugIn"), which is today moved into a `AbstractPlugin` API class and provides base functionality that can be extended. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        piBase was a base class for developing frontend plugins in TYPO3. The name "piBase" is based on the old class `class.tslib_pibase.php` ("pi" for "PlugIn"), which has now been moved into a `AbstractPlugin` API class and provides base functionality that can be extended. 
```

>         Nowadays, it has been superseded by Extbase or completely custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Nowadays, it has been superseded by Extbase and completely customized
```

        PHP-code plugins.

    ..  _pid---uid:
    -   *pid / uid*

        Each page and content element as a unique identifier (uid) assigned to
        it. The :sql:`pid` stands for "parent id" and references this :sql:`uid`

>         for any child records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for child records.
```

    ..  _plugin:
    -   *Plugin*

>         A plugin is an extension in TYPO3 that adds additional functionalities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A plugin is an extension in TYPO3 that adds additional functionality
```

>         and features to the website. The term "Frontend plugin" usually defines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        and features to a website. The term "Frontend plugin" usually defines
```

>         a specific content element that renders individual dynamic frontend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        a content element that renders dynamic frontend
```

>         functionalities by utilizing Extbase, Fluid or raw PHP code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        functionality by utilizing Extbase, Fluid or raw PHP code.
```

    ..  _processed-file:
    -   *Processed file*

        A processed file is a file that has been handled and optimized by TYPO3,
        such as being cropped or compressed. It is a persisted artifact that can

>         be regenerated, if missing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        be regenerated if missing.
```

*   R

    ..  _realurl:
    -   *Realurl*

        Realurl was a commonly used TYPO3 community extension that created and managed
        user-friendly URLs. Now, the TYPO3 Core offers exhaustive URL rewriting
        capabilities with Site Matchers, Route Enhancers/Decorators and slugs.

    ..  _records:
    -   *Records*

        A record is the smallest unit of a database entry. A record can be a

>         content element but also any kind of configuration record, data storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        content element but also any configuration record, data storage
```

>         record, user data record and much more. Records are defined via TCA and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        record, user data record and much more. Records are defined via the TCA and
```

>         according to their configuration can be edited in the backend GUI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        can be edited in the backend GUI depending on their configuration.
```

    ..  _recycler:
    -   *recycler*

        The Recycler is a backend module for managing and restoring
        deleted records.

    ..  _redirects:
    -   *Redirects*

        Redirects are links that direct users from one URL to another, often
        used to correct outdated or invalid links.

    ..  _rendertype:
    -   *RenderType*

        RenderType is a TCA setting in TYPO3 that defines the rendering mode of
        fields and content elements when displayed in the FormEngine.

    ..  _repository:
    -   *Repository*

        This term is usually referred to in Extbase-context, and defines a PHP
        API class in Domain Driven Design (DDD), that manages access to
        entities/models defined through configuration and database records.

    ..  _reports:
    -   *reports*

        Reports are analyses and insights in the TYPO3 backend that provide
        information about system performance and usage of extensions.

    ..  _rest---restructuredtext:
    -   *reST / reStructuredText*

        reST (reStructuredText) is a markup format used for creating and

>         formatting documentation in the official TYPO3 documentation and public

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        formatting documentation ssuch as the official TYPO3 documentation and public
```

        extensions.

    ..  _route-enhancer:
    -   *Route Enhancer*

        A Route Enhancer is a component in TYPO3 used for improving and

>         customizing the URL routing logic. It is part of the YAML Site

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        customizing URL routing logic. It is part of the YAML Site
```

        configuration.

    ..  _route-decorator---enhancing-decorator:
    -   *Route Decorator / Enhancing Decorator*

>         Route Decorators and Enhancing Decorators are part of the Route

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Route Decorators and Enhancing Decorators are part of Route
```

        enhancement and can be seen as configuration and API implementations

>         offering access to rewriting and accessing the URL routing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        where URL routing can be accessed and rewritten.
```

    ..  _rte-wysiwyg-ckeditor-htmlarea-t3editor:
    -   *RTE (also: WYSIWYG, CKEditor, htmlarea, t3editor)*

        A Rich Text Editor (RTE) is a tool in TYPO3 that enables WYSIWYG editing

>         (What You See Is What You Get), offered via the CKEditor Open Source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        (What You See Is What You Get), part of the CKEditor Open Source
```

        project. An older component was "rte_htmlarea". The t3editor is a
        specific RTE that handles syntax-highlighting for code languages.

    ..  _runtests-sh:
    -   *runTests.sh (?)*

        runTests.sh is utility Script provided internally by the TYPO3 Core,

>         which allows to run several tests (functional tests, unit tests,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        which allows several test types to be run (functional tests, unit tests,
```

>         acceptance tests) and manage the Core developers instances for building

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        acceptance tests) and where Core developers can manage instances for building
```

        assets.

*   S

    ..  _scheduler:
    -   *scheduler*

>         The scheduler is a backend module that manages and executes scheduled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The scheduler is a backend module that manages and executes regular, scheduled
```

>         tasks, like regular purging of temporary data or any kind of regular

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        tasks, such as regular purging of temporary data.
```

>         custom activity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    ..  _scheduler-tasks:
    -   *Scheduler Tasks*

        Scheduler tasks in TYPO3 are automated jobs that can be scheduled to run
        at specific times or intervals.

    ..  _showfields--tca:
    -   *showfields (TCA)*

>         showfields are part of the settings in the TCA (Table Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        showfields settings in the TCA (Table Configuration
```

>         Array) that defines which fields are displayed in the FormEngine backend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Array) that define which fields are displayed in the FormEngine backend
```

        GUI.

    ..  _signalslot---hook---event-dispatcher---listeners:
    -   *SignalSlot / Hook / Event Dispatcher + Listeners*

        SignalSlot was a design pattern in TYPO3 for implementing event-driven
        programming and allowing components to communicate with each other. This
        was superseded by the PSR-14 compatible Event-API (using a Dispatcher
        and Event Listeners).

    ..  _site-configuration:
    -   *Site Configuration*

        A Site Configuration includes settings and options that affect the
        behavior and display of a TYPO3 website, mapped to a specific domain

>         (with variants). The Site Configuration also include site settings,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        (with variants). The Site Configuration also includes site settings,
```

        which is a simple key/value storage of variables that can affect the
        frontend (or backend sections).

    ..  _site-language---page-language:
    -   *Site Language / Page Language*

        Site language and page language define the languages in which a TYPO3
        website and its content are displayed. It is part of the site
        configuration.

    ..  _site-management:
    -   *Site Management*

        Site management includes tools and functions for managing and
        maintaining a TYPO3 website, including the site configuration of each
        site.

    ..  _site-matcher:
    -   *Site Matcher*

        A site matcher is a component in TYPO3 used for mapping and processing
        URL patterns and requests in conjunction with a specific part of the
        page tree (root page/site).

    ..  _site-package:
    -   *Site Package*

        A site package is a pre-configured package in TYPO3 that usually
        contains configuration, Content Element definitions, functionality (like PSR-14

>         event listeners, middlewares), Templates and maybe even sample preset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        event listeners, middleware), templates and sample
```

        content.

    ..  _site-sets:
    -   *Site Sets*

        Site Sets are predefined collections of settings and configurations used

>         for setting up and managing TYPO3 websites, mainly grouping TypoScript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for setting up and managing TYPO3 websites, mainly used to assign TypoScript
```

        configuration to a site.

    ..  _sites:
    -   *Sites*

        Sites are the various websites / projects managed and operated within

>         the TYPO3 system. It can be regarded as the short form for "Website".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        the TYPO3 system. Site is the short form for "Website".
```

    ..  _slug:
    -   *Slug*

>         A slug is a user-friendly URL part, often generated from the page title

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A slug is a user-friendly part of a URL, often generated from the page title
```

        or content elements. A URL can consist of multiple slug parts.

    ..  _static-file-cache:
    -   *Static File Cache*

>         Static file cache in TYPO3 is an extension that is used to store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Static file cache is an extension that is used to store
```

>         pre-rendered pages as static files to improve performance, like a static

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        pre-rendered pages as static files to improve performance, such as a static
```

        page generator.

    ..  _styleguide:
    -   *Styleguide*

>         The styleguide extension is a collection of example TCA-based content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The styleguide extension is a collection of sample TCA-based content
```

        elements to showcase the functionality of TYPO3. It also features an

>         example page tree for both these backend elements, as well as a frontend

Reviewer: @garvinhicking please address this in a follow up

        example site.

>         On top of that, the module showcases all GUI elements (like dialogs,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The module also showcases all GUI elements (like dialogs,
```

        alerts, colors, accordions, grids, ...) that TYPO3 uses in the backend.

    ..  _svg-tree:
    -   *SVG Tree*

        The SVG tree is a visual representation of the page and content
        structure of a TYPO3 website in SVG format. This is the technical visual

>         implementation of the page tree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        version of the page tree.
```

    ..  _sys-log---sys-history:
    -   *sys_log / sys_history*

        The :sql:`sys_log` and :sql:`sys_history` are database tables in TYPO3
        for recording and tracking system events and changes.

    ..  _sysext:
    -   *sysext*

        Sysexts are SYStem EXTensions in TYPO3 that provide core functions
        and features. This is the name of a central TYPO3 Core Sourcecode

>         directory, and in older TYPO3 versions there was a stronger separation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        directory, and in older TYPO3 versions there was a clearer separation
```

        of system extension and local extension.

*   T

    ..  _t3dd:
    -   *T3DD*

        T3DD stands for TYPO3 Developer Days, an annual conference for TYPO3
        developers and enthusiasts.

    ..  _tca:
    -   *TCA*

        The Table Configuration Array (TCA) is a central configuration structure

>         in TYPO3 for defining and managing database tables and fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        in TYPO3 for defining and configuring database tables and fields.
```

    ..  _tceforms:
    -   *TCEforms*

        TCEforms are forms in TYPO3 used for editing database entries and
        content elements in the backend.

    ..  _templates---fluid:
    -   *Templates (=Fluid)*

        Templates in TYPO3, often created with Fluid, define the structure and

>         layout of the frontend display.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        layout of the frontend.
```

    ..  _ter:
    -   *TER*

        The TYPO3 Extension Repository (TER) is a central directory for
        distributing TYPO3 extensions.

    ..  _testing-framework:
    -   *Testing Framework*

        The Testing Framework in TYPO3 provides tools and methods for conducting
        automated tests used for developing the TYPO3 Core or custom projects
        and extensions.

    ..  _tsconfig:
    -   *TSconfig*

        TSconfig uses the TypoScript configuration language in TYPO3 and is used
        for defining backend settings and configuration options. This is

>         seperated into "User TSConfig" and "Page TSConfig"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        separated into "User TSConfig" and "Page TSConfig"
```

*   U

    ..  _uid:
    -   *uid*

        :sql:`uid` stands for Unique Identifier and is a unique identifier for
        records and objects in the TYPO3 system. It complements the :sql:`pid`
        (parent identifier).

    ..  _upgrade-wizard:
    -   *upgrade wizard*

        The upgrade wizard is a module in the TYPO3 backend used for performing
        system and database upgrades.

*   V

    ..  _vendor:
    -   *Vendor*

        The term "Vendor" is most commonly used as a semantic grouping

>         identifier for PHP namespaces in developed extensions. Composer collects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        identifier for PHP namespaces in extensions. Composer collects
```

>         all packages in a directory, that is also usually called "vendor" and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        packages in a directory, that is also usually called "vendor" and
```

Author: IMO "All" is important here for developers, since you cannot have any packages outside of it. So it really is a full "all".

        contains subdirectories with each of those PHP namespace identifiers. A
        vendor can then provide multiple distinct extensions, each separated by
        an extension name identifier. The PHP Composer class-Loading
        functionality depends on these two basic identifiers.

    ..  _viewhelper:
    -   *ViewHelper*

        ViewHelpers are logical helper functions, utilized in Fluid templates
        and partials. ViewHelpers are implemented as PHP code and can perform

>         any kind of functionality, however it is suggested to only use this for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        any kind of functionality, however they should only be used for
```

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

.. _typo3-terminology:

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
==============================

This section establishes common keywords and the terminology that TYPO3 uses.
For a guide on how to spell certain trademark and product names, see
:ref:`Spelling, terms and glossary <h2document:spelling-ref-this-guide>`.

.. _1-spelling-and-typo3-terminology:

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   A

    ..  _admin-panel:
    -   *Admin Panel*

        The Admin Panel is an administrative tool that can be enabled in the

>         frontend, to show debugging information, performed SQL queries and more

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        frontend to show debugging information, performed SQL queries and more
```

    -   *Backend Bookmarks*

        Backend bookmarks are shortcuts that users can set for frequently used
        backend pages for quicker access.

    ..  _backend-layout:
    -   *Backend Layout*

        The backend layout defines the structure and design of the backend user
        interface in regard to maintaining content elements and the arrangement
        of their input fields. A backend layout can be set on a page-level, and
        this attribute can actually be also evaluated in the frontend, to affect
        the arrangement of elements on a page.

    ..  _backend-module:
    -   *Backend Module*

        Backend modules are extendable components in the TYPO3 backend that
        provide various functionalities and tools like user management or file
        management. The left hand panel in the backend shows all these modules.

*   C

    ..  _callout:
    -   *Callout*

        A callout is a highlighted element designed to draw attention to
        important information or actions.

    ..  _cache--cache-backend--frontend-cache:
    -   *Cache (Cache Backend, Frontend Cache)*

        Caches are used to improve website performance by storing frequently

>         accessed data. The backend cache stores data in the administration

Reviewer 3: There is no official "backend cache". There is a "flush all caches" and a "flush frontend caches". In older TYPO3 systems we also had "flush system caches".

Author: For a "one-sentence" description IMO we need to not complicate things. How about "system cache" then?

Reviewer 3: The "flush system cache" was removed with TYPO3 7 or 8.

What about just: TYPO3 has multiple caches for various performance relevant areas in both for the frontend and the backend usage.

>         accessed data. The backend cache stores data in the administration

Author: ```suggestion
        accessed data. TYPO3 has multiple caches for various performance relevant areas in both for the frontend and the backend usage.
```

>         system, while the frontend cache stores data for the website display.

Author: ```suggestion
```

    ..  _cache-tags:
    -   *Cache Tags*

>         Cache tags are labels assigned to cache entries to facilitate the
>         management and invalidation of cached data.

Reviewer 3: Labels is a very short description of the contained data. But "PageId_243-2" is not.

What do you think about:

```suggestion
        With cache tags one or more cache entries can be grouped together. That way 
        all cache entries related to a cache tag can be invalidated with just one call.
```

        pasting content elements and records.

    ..  _colpos:
    -   *colPos*

        :spl:`colPos` is a column in the TYPO3 database that defines the
        position and layout of content elements on a page within a template.

    ..  _constants-setup:
    -   *Constants/Setup*

        Constants and Setup are configuration options in TYPO3 TypoScript that
        set basic settings and variables for the website. "Constants" can be
        regarded as variables, referencing contents defined in the backend GUI.
        The "Setup" uses these "Constants" to put the variables to the place
        they are needed, to define behaviour of the frontend (and sometimes also
        backend).

    ..  _content-blocks:
    -   *Content Blocks*

        Content blocks are predefined layouts and content elements that can be
        used to create page content in the TYPO3 backend. Currently it refers to
        an extension, whose feature set shall be part of TYPO3 v13. Content
        Blocks are small sets of configuration, defining both Backend input and
        frontend output.

    ..  _content-elements:
    -   *Content Elements*

>         Content elements in TYPO3 are building blocks of content that can shown

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Content elements in TYPO3 are building blocks of content that can be shown
```

        in the frontend. Each content element has many (and also custom)
        attributes, even consisting of nested hierachies of further content
        elements.

    ..  _core:
    -   *Core*

        The TYPO3 Core is the central framework of the CMS that provides all
        basic functions and features.

    ..  _core-development:
    -   *Core Development*

        Core Development refers to the development and maintenance of the
        central TYPO3 framework by the Core Team.

    ..  _core-merger:
    -   *Core Merger*

        A Core Merger is a person or team member responsible for merging code
        changes and updates into the TYPO3 core. TYPO3 Core Mergers are elected
        in a formal process.

    ..  _core-team:
    -   *Core Team*

>         The Core Team consists of the main developers and contributors

Reviewer 3: Why are Core Mergers not part of that group?

Author: They are, "main developers" would include that. Will rephrase.

>         The Core Team consists of the main developers and contributors

Author: ```suggestion
        The Core Team consists of the main developers (Core Mergers) and contributors
```

        responsible for developing and maintaining the TYPO3 core.

    ..  _crop-variants:
    -   *Crop variants*

        Crop Variants are different cropping options for images that can be
        defined and used within the TYPO3 system. One image can have for example
        a crop variant for "mobile" and "desktop", or different aspect ratios,
        or any custom scheme.

    ..  _crowdin:
    -   *Crowdin*

>         Crowdin is a translation tool used for localizing and translating TYPO3

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/) is a translation tool used for localizing and translating TYPO3
```

>         Crowdin is a translation tool used for localizing and translating TYPO3

Author: ```suggestion
        `Crowdin <https://crowdin.com/>`__ is a translation tool used for localizing and translating TYPO3
```

        content into different languages.

    ..  _ctype:
    -   *CType*

        :sql:`CType` stands for Content Type and is a database column field of
        the vital "tt_content" database table, where all content elements are
        stored. This column defines the name of a specific element, and
        influences how it is presented in the backend and frontend.

*   D

    ..  _dashboard---widgets:
    -   *Dashboard / Widgets*

        The dashboard is a customizable start page in the TYPO3 backend that
        contains various widgets for displaying important information and quick
        access.

    ..  _data-processor:
    -   *Data Processor*

        A data processor is a component that processes and manipulates data
        before it is displayed in the TYPO3 frontend. Data processors are
        implemented as PHP code and can be executed through TypoScript

>         configuration, and affect data passed on to Fluid templates. Thus, it is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        configuration and affect data passed on to Fluid templates. Thus, it is
```

        a specific implementation to operate on data before it is passed on to

>         the presentation layer (templates).

Reviewer 3: Data Processors are an integral part of Fluid. I think we can and should name "Fluid" here

>         the presentation layer (templates).

Author: ```suggestion
        the presentation layer (Fluid templates).
```

        within the TYPO3 system. Data providers are commonly used for passing on
        data in the backend (for example defining available icons, item keys and
        values).

    ..  _datahandler:
    -   *DataHandler*

        The DataHandler is a central component in TYPO3 responsible for
        processing and storing data changes. It is a large PHP class that is
        used in the backend to receive data from the FormEngine (content
        elements and records), and is also part of an extensive API that can be
        used by extensions to operate on records.

    ..  _db-analyzer---db-compare:
    -   *DB Analyzer / DB Compare*

        DB Analyzer and DB Compare are tools in TYPO3 that analyze and compare
        database structures to identify needed changes on the database-level for
        both for system upgrades and extension integration. Other systems often
        call this "database migration".

    ..  _db-mounts---mount-points:
    -   *DB Mounts / Mount Points*

        Mount points allow TYPO3 editors to mount a page (and its subpages) from
        a different area in the current backend page tree.

    ..  _dbal:
    -   *DBAL*

>         The Database Abstraction Layer (DBAL) is an abstraction layer in TYPO3

Reviewer 3: Don't explain labels with words of the label itself.

>         The Database Abstraction Layer (DBAL) is an abstraction layer in TYPO3

Author: ```suggestion
        The Database Abstraction Layer (DBAL) is collection of API Interfaces and Classes in TYPO3
```

>         that facilitates access to various database systems.

Author: ```suggestion
        that allows abstract access to various database systems. This allows to executing SQL queries without special adaptation to the supported database systems likeMariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.
```

*   E

    ..  _enhancer:
    -   *Enhancer*

>         An enhancer is a component that adds additional functionalities or

Reviewer 3: I have search whole TYPO3 v13. The word "enhancer" is only used by the router. So `adds...improvements to existing TYPO3 featureS" is not correct.

        improvements to existing TYPO3 features, most commonly used for
        "Routing Enhancers" operating on speaking URL fragments.

    ..  _exclude-fields:
    -   *Exclude Fields*

>         Exclude fields are fields that have been configured to allow being

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like "Each column of a table can be configured in TCA as "excluded", to..."

Author: Could you make a specific wording suggestion, I'm unsure?

        hidden in the TYPO3 backend for specific users or user groups. This is
        done via the permission setup.

    ..  _extbase:
    -   *Extbase*

        Extbase is a framework for developing extensions in the TYPO3 system
        based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) principle. It allows to easily

>         define models with their data fields, that can be managed by editors in

Author: ```suggestion
        define models with their data fields (stored as records), that can be managed by editors in
```

>         the backend. The models can then also be revealed in the frontend with

Reviewer 3: Models can not be managed by editors. Models contains properties, not fields. Editors can only edit columns or fields, if configured in TCA, but not because it is part of the model.

Author: This applies to "data fields", which should better say "data records". These can be managed by editors, was what Inwanted to express

        any custom logic, adhering to standards, conventions and API
        definitions. The Extbase controllers which are part of an Extbase plugin
        allow to integrate this custom logic in PHP.

    ..  _extension:
    -   *Extension*

        An extension is an add-on to the TYPO3 system that adds additional
        functionalities and features. An extension can consist of multiple
        parts, for example backend modules, frontend plugins, scheduler tasks,
        console commands, API definitions, frontend styling and much more.

    ..  _extension-builder:
    -   *Extension Builder*

        The Extension Builder is a backend module in TYPO3 that facilitates the
        creation of (preferably) extbase extensions. The Extension Builder is a
        community extension and maintained on its own.

    ..  _extension-manager:
    -   *Extension Manager*

        The Extension Manager is an interface in the TYPO3 backend used for
        installing, updating, and managing extensions. It is very important in

>         legacy installations, but in cComposer-based installations it is only

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        legacy installations, but in composer-based installations it is only
```

Reviewer: Actually Composer beeing a name / propper noun it should always be capitalized. So Composer-based not composer-based

        used for configuring extensions (composer then manages the
        (de-)installation of extensions).

    ..  _extension-scanner:
    -   *Extension Scanner*

        The Extension Scanner analyzes installed extensions for compatibility
        issues for current and future TYPO3 versions. It can report fixes that
        are needed to upgrade a custom extension.

*   F

    ..  _fal:
    -   *FAL*

        The File Abstraction Layer (FAL) is a system in TYPO3 that centralizes
        the management and access to files and media resources. This is the
        technical interface (API) to the integrated media asset database.

    ..  _fe-groups---be-groups:
    -   *fe_groups / be_groups*

>         Frontend groups :sql:`fe_groups` and backend groups :sql:`be_groups`

Reviewer 3: With frontend groups you can only restrict page and content elements access. With backend groups you also can restrict access to a column-base.

>         are user groups in TYPO3 that define different permissions and roles.

Author: ```suggestion
        are user groups in TYPO3 that define different permissions and roles. Frontend groups restrict frontend content and possible actions to specific users in those groups. Backend groups allow to define permissions on what content and actions can be performed in the backend.
```

    ..  _felogin:
    -   *felogin*

        :t3ext:`felogin` is a TYPO3 system extension for managing and
        authenticating frontend users.

    ..  _fe-users---be-users:
    -   *fe_users / be_users*

        Frontend users :sql:`fe_users` and backend users :sql:`be_users` are the
        two main types of users in the TYPO3 system.

    ..  _file-reference:
    -   *file reference*

>         A file reference is a reference to a file stored and used within the

Reviewer 3: file references reducing the webspace a lot as files related to multiple content elements and records are now set in relation by reference records and were not needed to copy anymore.

>         TYPO3 system.

Author: ```suggestion
        TYPO3 system. A file reference (in comparison to a file copy) is only a pointer to the original file, so when the original file changes, all references will too.
```

    ..  _file-resource:
    -   *file resource*

>         A file resource is a physical file that is stored and managed within the

Reviewer 3: A file reference always points to the sys_file record. And a sys_file records points to a pysically file resource.

Author: IMO we should not introduce 'sys_file' details here, this should be abstract?

        frontend. A flexForm data source (XML format) defines available sheets,
        sections and fields, which are displayed alongside a record in the
        backend record editing interface (based on TCA naming).
        The values entered in a FlexForm data source are also saved as XML data
        (as some kind of "blob", so it needs serialization and deserialization
        when being accessed), which allows for any kind of flexible additional
        data storage in parallel to the relational database tables (like
        :sql:`tt_content`).

    ..  _fluid:
    -   *Fluid*

        Fluid is a template engine in TYPO3 used for creating dynamic and
        customizable frontend layouts. The format looks like HTML and offers
        specific and extensible tags to be embedded. It also standard variable
        replacement as well as a large range of algorithmic and logical
        operations.

    ..  _forge---forger---gerrit:
    -   *Forge / Forger / Gerrit*

        [Forge](https://forge.typo3.org/) is the central issue platform for
        letting the Core Team manage the TYPO3 project and its features and

>         bugs. [Forger](https://forger.typo3.com/) and [Gerrit](https://review.typo3.org/)

Reviewer 3: Forger is just an Elastic Search representation for faster search and statistics of open/closed tickets, but it does not manage code reviews.

Author: "Code review AND management", Forger is a management tool. I think this is okay then?

        are tools for code review and management.

    ..  _form-framework---form-extension:
    -   *Form Framework / Form Extension*

        The :t3ext:`form` framework in TYPO3 is used to create and manage
        complex forms with various fields and validations. A backend module
        allows to configure these forms with a powerful GUI.

    ..  _form-variants:
    -   *Form Variants*

>         Form Variants are different versions or variations of a form built in

Reviewer 3: You mean: In frontend you can show different form fields based on the value of another prior form field. Right?

Author: Different languages are also variants? I'd like to keep it abstract so that maybe future variations are also included in this, and not only fixed on "different fields based on the value of another"? That would be very specific already?

        the form framework, that can be defined and used within the TYPO3
        system.

    ..  _formengine:
    -   *FormEngine*

        The FormEngine is a vital component in TYPO3 responsible for displaying all record

>         and content editing parts in the Backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        and content editing parts in the backend.
```

    ..  _fsc---csc:
    -   *fsc / csc*

>         fsc (Fluid Styled Content) and csc (CSS Styled Content) are system

Reviewer 3: Do we really still want to explain CSC? IMO it was removed with TYPO3 8 or 9.

Author: Yes, IMO to explain TYPO3 syntax and where CSC was a thing it IMO fits to state that here?

        extensions that can be used to render content elements in the frontend.

*   G

    ..  _generalutility:
    -   *GeneralUtility*

>         GeneralUtility is a central PHP class in TYPO3 that provides a variety

Reviewer 3: Don't explain labels with words of the label itself.

Author: I'm open to different suggestions, but it's better than an empty description here? :D

        server.

    ..  _link-browser:
    -   *Link Browser*

        The Link Browser is a tool in the TYPO3 backend for creating and
        managing links and references. It can be accessed when inserting links
        into content elements and is opened as a popup, allowing to pick pages,
        records, media files, or enter URLS for all fields configured as "link
        type", or within plain content edited through the RTE.

    ..  _linkhandler:
    -   *LinkHandler*

        The LinkHandler is a component in TYPO3 that provides advanced link and
        reference functionalities. Each kind of Link (like: files, pages,
        records, mails, telephone, ...) is implemented via the LinkHandler API.

    ..  _linkvalidator:
    -   *Linkvalidator*

        Linkvalidator is a tool in TYPO3 that checks links and references on the
        website for validity and identifies broken or invalid links. It operates
        on the level of content elements and their specific data fields.

    ..  _list-view:
    -   *List View*

        The :guilabel:`Web -> List` view is a view in the TYPO3 backend used for
        displaying and managing records in a list format, usually for the

>         File List.

Reviewer 3: Not usually for filelist

>         displaying and managing records in a list format, usually for the

Author: ```suggestion
        displaying and managing records in a list format.
```

>         File List.

Author: ```suggestion
```

*   M

    ..  _maintenance-mode:
    -   *Maintenance Mode*

        Maintenance Mode in TYPO3 is used to take the website offline
        temporarily for updates or maintenance. Only maintainers

>         (administrators) are then able to access the backend and/or frontend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        (administrators) are then able to access the backend and frontend.
```

    ..  _maintenance-tool:
    -   *Maintenance Tool*

        The Maintenance Tool is a tool in the TYPO3 backend used for performing
        maintenance tasks and system optimizations. It is part of the "Admin
        Tools" backend module.

    ..  _makeinstance:
    -   *makeInstance*

>         makeInstance is a method in the TYPO3 PHP API, used for creating

Reviewer 3: Somewhere above you have also mentioned GeneralUtility. Writing GeneralUtility::makeInstance() should be OK here.

>         makeInstance is a method in the TYPO3 PHP API, used for creating

Author: ```suggestion
        `GeneralUtility::makeInstance()` is a method in the TYPO3 PHP API, used for creating
```

        instances of classes and objects. It can utilize "Dependency Injection"
        for service classes.

    ..  _modal:
    -   *Modal*

        A modal is a dialog or pop-up window in TYPO3 that prompts users to
        enter or confirm information.

    ..  _module:
    -   *Module*

>         A module is an extendable component in TYPO3 that provides various

Reviewer 3: A module extends TYPO3 functionality, but a module itself is not extendable (in most cases)

>         A module is an extendable component in TYPO3 that provides various

Author: ```suggestion
        A module is a component that expands the TYPO3 backend by providing various
```

        change central configuration of records and content elements.

*   P

    ..  _package:
    -   *Package*

        A Package is a bundle of files and resources used for installing and
        configuring extensions or functionalities in TYPO3. Commonly, TYPO3
        extensions are provided as "Composer Packages", where this term is the
        short form of.

    ..  _page-frame---tree-frame---module-frame---navigation-frame:
    -   *Page Frame / Tree Frame / Module Frame / Navigation Frame*

        Page frame, Tree frame, and Module frame are various sections in the
        TYPO3 backend used for displaying and navigating content and modules.

    ..  _page-tree:
    -   *Page Tree*

        The Page Tree is a hierarchical representation of the page structure in
        the TYPO3 backend used for navigating and managing the website. It is
        shown in the middle section of the TYPO3 Backend in the places where
        content is edited.

    ..  _page-view:
    -   *Page View*

        The Page View is a view in the TYPO3 backend used for editing and
        managing individual page content.

    ..  _pagebuilder:

>     -   *Pagebuilder*

Author: ```suggestion
    -   *Page builder* / *Sitepackage Builder*
```

>         Pagebuilders are tools in TYPO3 for creating and designing page layouts

Reviewer 3: I have never heard of pagebuilders. Maybe you mean something like: https://www.sitepackagebuilder.com/

Author: Heh. Guess I always labelled them like that myself then. I'll rephrase this to "Page or Sitepackage Builder"

>         Pagebuilders are tools in TYPO3 for creating and designing page layouts

Author: ```suggestion
        A Sitepackage Builder, or Pagebuilders, are tools in TYPO3 for creating and designing page layouts
```

>         and content. Pagebuilders are often used to create "Sitepackage

Author: ```suggestion
        and content. They are often used to create "Sitepackage
```

        extensions", which define the central TYPO3 frontend look and the
        definitions of content elements. Since these sitepackages can often be

>         repetitive and contain boilerplate code, Pagebuilders can help to

Author: ```suggestion
        repetitive and contain boilerplate code, buliders can help to
```

        auto-generate these sitepackages.

    ..  _pagerenderer:
    -   *PageRenderer*

        The PageRenderer is a PHP API component in TYPO3 responsible for
        rendering and displaying page content in the frontend.

    ..  _palette--tca:
    -   *Palette (TCA)*

        A Palette in the TCA (Table Configuration Array) is a grouping of fields
        that can be displayed and edited together.

    ..  _partial:
    -   *Partial*

        A Partial is a re-usable component of Fluid templates, that can be
        parametrized.

    ..  _permissions---acl:
    -   *Permissions / ACL*

        Permissions and Access Control Lists (ACL) are mechanisms in TYPO3 for
        managing access rights and restrictions for users and groups.

    ..  _pibase:
    -   *piBase*

>         piBase is a base class for developing frontend plugins in TYPO3.

Reviewer 3: The name "piBase" is based on the old class `class.tslib_pibase.php`. With the upgrade to TYPO3 6.0 various classes were renamed and `class.tslib_pibase.php` is now called `AbstractPlugin.php`.
The AbstractPlugin brings a lot of functionality like translation, fetching data and pagination. This class has to be extended by your own implementation and ideas of your plugin.

>         piBase is a base class for developing frontend plugins in TYPO3.

Author: ```suggestion
        piBase was a base class for developing frontend plugins in TYPO3. The name "piBase" is based on the old class `class.tslib_pibase.php` ("pi" for "PlugIn"), which is today moved into a `AbstractPlugin` API class and provides base functionality that can be extended. 
```

        Nowadays, it has been superseded by Extbase or completely custom
        PHP-code plugins.

    ..  _pid---uid:
    -   *pid / uid*

        Each page and content element as a unique identifier (uid) assigned to
        it. The :sql:`pid` stands for "parent id" and references this :sql:`uid`
        for any child records.

    ..  _plugin:
    -   *Plugin*

        A plugin is an extension in TYPO3 that adds additional functionalities
        and features to the website. The term "Frontend plugin" usually defines
        a specific content element that renders individual dynamic frontend
        functionalities by utilizing Extbase, Fluid or raw PHP code.

    ..  _processed-file:
    -   *Processed file*

        A processed file is a file that has been handled and optimized by TYPO3,
        such as being cropped or compressed. It is a persisted artifact that can
        be regenerated, if missing.

*   R

    ..  _realurl:
    -   *Realurl*

>         Realurl was a commonly used TYPO3 extension that created and managed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Realurl was a commonly used TYPO3 community extension that created and managed
```

        user-friendly URLs. Now, the TYPO3 Core offers exhaustive URL rewriting
        capabilities with Site Matchers, Route Enhancers/Decorators and slugs.

    ..  _records:
    -   *Records*

        A record is the smallest unit of a database entry. A record can be a
        content element but also any kind of configuration record, data storage
        record, user data record and much more. Records are defined via TCA and
        according to their configuration can be edited in the backend GUI.

    ..  _recycler:
    -   *recycler*

>         The Recycler is a tool in the TYPO3 backend for managing and restoring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        The Recycler is a backend module for managing and restoring
```

        deleted records.

    ..  _redirects:
    -   *Redirects*

        Redirects are links that direct users from one URL to another, often
        used to correct outdated or invalid links.

    ..  _rendertype:
    -   *RenderType*

>         RenderType is a setting in TYPO3 that defines the rendering mode of

Reviewer 3: Please mention TCA here

>         RenderType is a setting in TYPO3 that defines the rendering mode of

Author: ```suggestion
        RenderType is a TCA setting in TYPO3 that defines the rendering mode of
```

        This term is usually referred to in Extbase-context, and defines a PHP
        API class in Domain Driven Design (DDD), that manages access to
        entities/models defined through configuration and database records.

    ..  _reports:
    -   *reports*

        Reports are analyses and insights in the TYPO3 backend that provide
        information about system performance and usage of extensions.

    ..  _rest---restructuredtext:
    -   *reST / reStructuredText*

        reST (reStructuredText) is a markup format used for creating and
        formatting documentation in the official TYPO3 documentation and public
        extensions.

    ..  _route-enhancer:
    -   *Route Enhancer*

        A Route Enhancer is a component in TYPO3 used for improving and
        customizing the URL routing logic. It is part of the YAML Site
        configuration.

    ..  _route-decorator---enhancing-decorator:
    -   *Route Decorator / Enhancing Decorator*

        Route Decorators and Enhancing Decorators are part of the Route
        enhancement and can be seen as configuration and API implementations
        offering access to rewriting and accessing the URL routing.

>     ..  _rte--also--wysiwyg--ckeditor--htmlarea--t-editor:

Reviewer 3: Are numbers not allowed in header link?

>     ..  _rte--also--wysiwyg--ckeditor--htmlarea--t-editor:

Author: ```suggestion
    ..  _rte-wysiwyg-ckeditor-htmlarea-t3editor:
```

    -   *RTE (also: WYSIWYG, CKEditor, htmlarea, t3editor)*

        A Rich Text Editor (RTE) is a tool in TYPO3 that enables WYSIWYG editing
        (What You See Is What You Get), offered via the CKEditor Open Source
        project. An older component was "rte_htmlarea". The t3editor is a
        specific RTE that handles syntax-highlighting for code languages.

    ..  _runtests-sh:
    -   *runTests.sh (?)*

        runTests.sh is utility Script provided internally by the TYPO3 Core,
        which allows to run several tests (functional tests, unit tests,
        acceptance tests) and manage the Core developers instances for building
        assets.

*   S

    ..  _scheduler:
    -   *scheduler*

>         The scheduler is a tool in TYPO3 that manages and executes scheduled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        The scheduler is a backend module that manages and executes scheduled
```

        A Site Configuration includes settings and options that affect the
        behavior and display of a TYPO3 website, mapped to a specific domain
        (with variants). The Site Configuration also include site settings,
        which is a simple key/value storage of variables that can affect the
        frontend (or backend sections).

    ..  _site-language---page-language:
    -   *Site Language / Page Language*

        Site language and page language define the languages in which a TYPO3
        website and its content are displayed. It is part of the site
        configuration.

    ..  _site-management:
    -   *Site Management*

        Site management includes tools and functions for managing and
        maintaining a TYPO3 website, including the site configuration of each
        site.

    ..  _site-matcher:
    -   *Site Matcher*

        A site matcher is a component in TYPO3 used for mapping and processing
        URL patterns and requests in conjunction with a specific part of the
        page tree (root page/site).

    ..  _site-package:
    -   *Site Package*

        A site package is a pre-configured package in TYPO3 that usually

>         contains configuration, Content Elements, functionality (like PSR-14

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        contains configuration, Content Element definitions, functionality (like PSR-14
```

    -   *Styleguide*

        The styleguide extension is a collection of example TCA-based content
        elements to showcase the functionality of TYPO3. It also features an
        example page tree for both these backend elements, as well as a frontend
        example site.
        On top of that, the module showcases all GUI elements (like dialogs,
        alerts, colors, accordions, grids, ...) that TYPO3 uses in the backend.

    ..  _svg-tree:
    -   *SVG Tree*

        The SVG tree is a visual representation of the page and content
        structure of a TYPO3 website in SVG format. This is the technical visual
        implementation of the page tree.

    ..  _sys-log---sys-history:
    -   *sys_log / sys_history*

        The :sql:`sys_log` and :sql:`sys_history` are database tables in TYPO3
        for recording and tracking system events and changes.

    ..  _sysext:
    -   *sysext*

        Sysexts are SYStem EXTensions in TYPO3 that provide core functions
        and features. This is the name of a central TYPO3 Core Sourcecode
        directory, and in older TYPO3 versions there was a stronger separation
        of system extension and local extension.

*   T

>     ..  _t-dd:

Reviewer 3: Are numbers not allowed in header?

>     ..  _t-dd:

Author: ```suggestion
    ..  _t3dd:
```

        (parent identifier).

    ..  _upgrade-wizard:
    -   *upgrade wizard*

        The upgrade wizard is a module in the TYPO3 backend used for performing
        system and database upgrades.

*   V

    ..  _vendor:
    -   *Vendor*

        The term "Vendor" is most commonly used as a semantic grouping
        identifier for PHP namespaces in developed extensions. Composer collects
        all packages in a directory, that is also usually called "vendor" and
        contains subdirectories with each of those PHP namespace identifiers. A
        vendor can then provide multiple distinct extensions, each separated by
        an extension name identifier. The PHP Composer class-Loading
        functionality depends on these two basic identifiers.

    ..  _viewhelper:
    -   *ViewHelper*

        ViewHelpers are logical helper functions, utilized in Fluid templates
        and partials. ViewHelpers are implemented as PHP code and can perform
        any kind of functionality, however it is suggested to only use this for
        managing context of frontend output and should not contain too much
        domain logic.

*   W

>     ..  _workspace-s:

Reviewer 3: What about just "workspaces"?

>     ..  _workspace-s:

Author: ```suggestion
    ..  _workspaces:
```

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

> .. _typo3-terminology:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _typo3-terminology:

```

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
==============================

This section establishes common keywords and the terminology that TYPO3 uses.
For a guide on how to spell certain trademark and product names, see
:ref:`Spelling, terms and glossary <h2document:spelling-ref-this-guide>`.

.. _1-spelling-and-typo3-terminology:

Spelling and TYPO3 Terminology
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*   A

    ..  _admin-panel:
    -   *Admin Panel*

        The Admin Panel is an administrative tool that can be enabled in the frontend,
        to show debugging information, performed SQL queries and more for authenticated
        backend users.

    ..  _admin-tools:
    -   *Admin Tools*

>         Admin Tools are a group of Backend modules. These include maintaining the installation,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Admin Tools are a group of backend modules. These include maintaining the installation,
```

>         Admin Tools are a group of Backend modules. These include maintaining the installation,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Admin tools are a group of Backend modules. These include maintaining the installation,
```

        adjusting settings, executing upgrade wizards, checking environment information and setting
        up extensions.

    ..  _allow-fields:
    -   *Allow Fields*

>         Allow Fields refer to fields of content elements displayed in the TYPO3 backend in regard to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Allow Fields refer to fields of content elements displayed in the TYPO3 Backend in regard to
```

>         Allow Fields refer to fields of content elements displayed in the TYPO3 backend in regard to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Allow fields refer to fields of content elements displayed in the TYPO3 backend in regard to
```

        their permissions. Editors can only edit fields in the backend, which are included in the
        list of "Allow fields" in their permission setup.

    ..  _assets:
    -   *Assets*

>         Assets are media resources like images, videos, and documents that are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Assets are media resources like images, videos and documents that are
```

>         uploaded and managed in the TYPO3 system. Also, extensions can include "Assets" which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        uploaded and managed in the TYPO3 system. Also, extensions can include assets which
```

        can be referred to in the frontend, like specific icons or even JavaScript libraries.

*   B

    ..  _backend---frontend:
    -   *Backend / Frontend*

>         Backend and Frontend are the two main areas of TYPO3 CMS. The Backend is
>         the administration interface for editors and administrators, while the
>         Frontend is the publicly accessible part of the website.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Backend and Frontend are the two main areas of TYPO3 CMS. The backend is
        the administrative interface for editors and administrators, while the
        frontend is the publicly accessible part of the website.
```

    ..  _backend-bookmarks:
    -   *Backend Bookmarks*

>         Backend Bookmarks are shortcuts that users can set for frequently used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Backend bookmarks are shortcuts that users can set for frequently used
```

        backend pages for quicker access.

    ..  _backend-layout:
    -   *Backend Layout*

>         The Backend Layout defines the structure and design of the backend user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        The backend layout defines the structure and design of the backend user
```

        interface in regard to maintaining content elements and the arrangement of their

>         input fields. A "Backend Layout" can be set on a page-level, and this attribute

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        input fields. A backend layout can be set on a page-level, and this attribute
```

        can actually be also evaluated in the frontend, to affect the arrangement of
        elements on a page.

    ..  _backend-module:
    -   *Backend Module*

>         Backend Modules are extendable components in the TYPO3 backend that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Backend modules are extendable components in the TYPO3 backend that
```

        provide various functionalities and tools like user management or file
        management. The left hand panel in the backend shows all these modules.

*   C

    ..  _callout:
    -   *Callout*

>         A Callout is a highlighted element designed to draw attention to important

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        A callout is a highlighted element designed to draw attention to important
```

        information or actions.

    ..  _cache--cache-backend--frontend-cache:
    -   *Cache (Cache Backend, Frontend Cache)*

        Caches are used to improve website performance by storing frequently

>         accessed data. The Backend Cache stores data in the administration system,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        accessed data. The backend cache stores data in the administration system,
```

>         while the Frontend Cache stores data for the website display.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        while the frontend cache stores data for the website display.
```

        The backend layout defines the structure and design of the backend user
        interface in regard to maintaining content elements and the arrangement of their
        input fields. A backend layout can be set on a page-level, and this attribute
        can actually be also evaluated in the frontend, to affect the arrangement of
        elements on a page.

    ..  _backend-module:
    -   *Backend Module*

        Backend modules are extendable components in the TYPO3 backend that
        provide various functionalities and tools like user management or file
        management. The left hand panel in the backend shows all these modules.

*   C

    ..  _callout:
    -   *Callout*

        A callout is a highlighted element designed to draw attention to important
        information or actions.

    ..  _cache--cache-backend--frontend-cache:
    -   *Cache (Cache Backend, Frontend Cache)*

        Caches are used to improve website performance by storing frequently
        accessed data. The backend cache stores data in the administration system,
        while the frontend cache stores data for the website display.

    ..  _cache-tags:
    -   *Cache Tags*

>         Cache Tags are labels assigned to cache entries to facilitate the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Cache tags are labels assigned to cache entries to facilitate the
```

        management and invalidation of cached data.

    ..  _certification--t-cc--t-cd--t-ci--t-ce:

>     -   *Certification (T3CC, T3CD, T3CI, T3CE)*
> 
>         Certifications in the TYPO3 ecosystem, such as T3CC (Consultant), T3CD (Developer),
>         T3CI (Integrator), and T3CE (Editor) confirm the proficiency of developers and
>         integrators in various aspects of TYPO3 CMS. TYPO3 has an official certification
>         strategy.

Reviewer 3: It's not `T3` for `TYPO3`, it's `TC` for `TYPO3 CMS`:
https://typo3.com/services/certifications

```suggestion
    -   *Certification (TCCC, TCCD, TCCI, TCCE)*

        Certifications in the TYPO3 ecosystem, such as TCCC (Consultant), TCCD (Developer),
        TCCI (Integrator), and TCCE (Editor) confirm the proficiency of developers and
        integrators in various aspects of TYPO3 CMS. TYPO3 has an official certification
        strategy.
```

    ..  _cig-sig--special-interest-group:
    -   *CIG/SIG (Special Interest Group)*

        Special Interest Groups (SIGs) are groups of experts and enthusiasts who
        focus on specific topics within the TYPO3 ecosystem and work on improving
        those areas.

    ..  _clipboard:
    -   *Clipboard*

        The Clipboard in the TYPO3 backend is a tool for copying, cutting, and
        pasting content elements and records.

    ..  _colpos:
    -   *colPos*

>         colPos is a column in the TYPO3 database that defines the position and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        :spl:`colPos` is a column in the TYPO3 database that defines the position and
```

        layout of content elements on a page within a template.

    ..  _constants-setup:
    -   *Constants/Setup*

        Constants and Setup are configuration options in TYPO3 TypoScript that set
        basic settings and variables for the website. "Constants" can be regarded

>         as variables, referencing contents defined in the Backend GUI. The "Setup"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        as variables, referencing contents defined in the backend GUI. The "Setup"
```

        uses these "Constants" to put the variables to the place they are needed, to

>         define behaviour of the Frontend (and sometimes also Backend).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        define behaviour of the frontend (and sometimes also backend).
```

    ..  _content-blocks:
    -   *Content Blocks*

>         Content Blocks are predefined layouts and content elements that can be used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Content blocks are predefined layouts and content elements that can be used
```

        to create page content in the TYPO3 backend. Currently it refers to an

>         extension, whose feature set shall be part of TYPO3 v13. Content Blocks are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        extension, whose feature set shall be part of TYPO3 v13. Content blocks are
```

>         small sets of configuration, defining both Backend input and Frontend output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        small sets of configuration, defining both Backend input and frontend output.
```

    ..  _content-elements:
    -   *Content Elements*

>         Content Elements in TYPO3 are building blocks of content that can shown
>         in the frontend. Each Content Element has many (and also custom) attributes,
>         even consisting of nested hierachies of further Content Elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Content elements in TYPO3 are building blocks of content that can shown
        in the frontend. Each content element has many (and also custom) attributes,
        even consisting of nested hierachies of further content elements.
```

        functions and features.

    ..  _core-development:
    -   *Core Development*

        Core Development refers to the development and maintenance of the central
        TYPO3 framework by the Core Team.

    ..  _core-merger:
    -   *Core Merger*

        A Core Merger is a person or team member responsible for merging code
        changes and updates into the TYPO3 core. TYPO3 Core Mergers are elected
        in a formal process.

    ..  _core-team:
    -   *Core Team*

        The Core Team consists of the main developers and contributors responsible
        for developing and maintaining the TYPO3 core.

    ..  _crop-variants:
    -   *Crop variants*

        Crop Variants are different cropping options for images that can be defined
        and used within the TYPO3 system. One image can have for example a crop
        variant for "mobile" and "desktop", or different aspect ratios, or any
        custom scheme.

    ..  _crowdin:
    -   *Crowdin*

        Crowdin is a translation tool used for localizing and translating TYPO3
        content into different languages.

    ..  _ctype:
    -   *CType*

>         CType stands for Content Type and is a database column field of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        :sql:`CType` stands for Content Type and is a database column field of the
```

>         vital "tt_content" database table, where all Content Elements are stored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        vital "tt_content" database table, where all content elements are stored.
```

        This column defines the name of a specific element, and influences how it

>         is presented in the Backend and Frontend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        is presented in the backend and frontend.
```
